---
layout: post
title: It's alive
date: 2016-10-24 20:00:00.000000000 +00:00
type: post
published: true
status: publish
categories:
- Other
tags: []
---
Hi from the other side :) Some of you were here two years ago, when I was writing, some of you are new to this blog. 
Well, if you're new, it does not matter, everything changed, Panta Rhei.

Important thing for me, I'm going to write, again.

You may wonder about several things, I'll try to answer about two:

1. What (I'm going to write about)
2. Why (I'm writing again)

So let me start with *why* question as it's easier :)
Well, knowledge sharing is cool! I talked about it for the whole year at various places (JDD, Devoxx, Boiling Frogs...). I want to share, and mentioned that each talk for 2 years. 
What I needed thou was someone/something to push me, and I had two of those. First was [Ted Neward](https://twitter.com/tedneward) second one [Bartosz Mazurek](https://medium.com/@bartoszmazurek/).

During Devoxx Ted had discussion about his session (more about it in next post) which moved me enough to *commit* (yeah, I'm corp all over :/) to blogging again
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" data-lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://twitter.com/tedneward">@tedneward</a> and as for your exchange of thoughts with Wojciech S, it inspired me to finally finish migration of my blog and write sth. THX :)</p>&mdash; Michał Gruca (@michalgruca) <a href="https://twitter.com/michalgruca/status/747438414962790400">June 27, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

With Bartosz it is less obvious about motivator. He's writing a lot and I'm reviewing some of the drafts, which is making me feel guilty of not writing on my own :)


Now about **What** part?

In last two years my focused changed a lot. I'm still going to dev conferences, I still do JUG, but on daily basis I work with people, not with code. 

Expect more of following topics:

* Leadership
* Team building
* Soft skills
* Agile ( :O )

but there will be something about code as well, mostly *craftsmanship* topics as my mission is to promote ~~good~~ **best** practices ;)

We're also going to dive into basics also, as it took me ten years to understand OO, SOLID, TDD and others with their principles.

So see you all soon! :)
